So we get our token configured and created here,
now of course we want to return it.
And for that, I'll actually create a new response,
I don't need to return this one now because there is no code after this code which is going to run.
It's just bad to
omit the return statement here for example, then make it into that block and the execution will continue
and therefore you would send a second response which would cause an error.
That is why you should return here to prevent the execution of this code.
Here we got no other code,
so no need for the return statement
and then here, I will set the status code to 200
because here we did successfully authenticate and I will send a JSON response where you can of course
send a message but most importantly, where I will set my token.
So there I will return the token which we're generating here.
Now the back-end is finished,
now let me move on to the front-end. In the auth service, I'll create a new method, loginUser or just login,
whatever you like.
There we definitely need an e-mail and a password right because, well that's the data we need to send to the
back-end
and then here I'll again send a post request and I will send a post request to that same
URL,
well almost, the end will be /login to target that newly created route but I will also create my
auth data just like for signing up
and of course I will append my auth data to the request and then here we can subscribe and simply for now,
log the response to see what's inside of it.
We should see the token there for a valid credentials.
Now of course we need to connect that newly created service method to the login component and for
that, in the login component, I'll
first of all again inject my auth service of type auth service and you need to add the import to that at the
top
and with that added here in onLogin, I first of all check whenever my form is invalid, in which case
I will just return and otherwise, I will send that request by calling this auth service login and sending
my form value e-mail value and form value
password.
And now we should have everything we need,
make sure you save all files,
go back to your app, go to login and test that credential combination you used for creating a user.
Now here I get an unauthorised my password might be wrong though, so
let me quickly create a new user where I'm sure I didn't mistype. So that's a user created,
let's now also login with that user
and that doesn't work,
I'm pretty sure I didn't mistype
now, so let's see where this is
failing. To find out,
I'll go to my back-end and first of all, let's console log the user we're retrieving here when we're
looking for the existence of the user. With that added, let's simply submit that presumably valid authentication
information again and I do see, I did retrieve a user there.
So that's looking good,
I should make it past this check therefore.
I also do have a password field and I should be able to compare this.
So let's next console log
the result we're getting here from that comparison. If I save this
and I send the request again back on the server,
we do get
true.
So that's looking good too,
we should make it to the token here.
So let's console log our token then,
that is not happening,
so something is failing when we actually sign this and therefore, we reach this catch block which actually
catches any errors happening prior to it.
The error then becomes clear
if you add another console log here in the catch block where you log the error object.
With that, if you now login again, you'll see user is not defined
and that makes a lot of sense.
I'm trying to access user e-mail and user ID here but I'm in a new
then block. The user object only exists in that first then block, not the second one.
So in order to access the user down there
too, I of course need to get it down into that second then block
and the easiest way to do that is to simply create a new variable,
let fetchedUser and store that value here
if we got a user, so fetchedUser is equal to user and now we can use fetchedUser anywhere where we
want to access user data, like here user e-mail, that's fetchedUser e-mail, user ID, that's fetchedUser
ID.
Now with that and all console log statements removed, we can go back to our app and now let me clear
the console,
you don't need to reload.
If I now hit login, now I get back an object with that JSON Web Token and the next goal will be to store
that in our front-end code and then use it to authenticate for future requests
going to protected routes.